# Thesis: Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on DNS performance: a two-year study

Scripts:

PreprocessingDNS: Takes as input InputfileDNS 2019, Outputfile2019, InputfileDNS 2020, Outputfile2020.returns as output all files for analysis in particular the results file with only the probes active for at least 80% of the time.

PreprocessingDNS_NSID: Like the previous one, but returns files with additional information about the NSID field if it is present.

PreprocessingPING: Takes as input InputfilePING 2019, Outputfile2019, InputfilePING 2020, Outputfile2020.returns as output all files for analysis in particular the results file with only the probes active for at least 80% of the time.

PreprocessingDHCP: Takes as input InputfileDHCP 2019, Outputfile2019, InputfileDHCP 2020, Outputfile2020.returns as output all files for analysis in particular the results file with only the probes active for at least 80% of the time.

ResponseTimeFixedResolver: Takes input file2019DNSpreprocessed, nations-prb_id matching file2019, file2020DNSpreprocessed, nations-prb_id matching file 2020. Returns all median, 90th percentile and error plots as output. 

PreprocessingDNS_NSID: Like the previous one, but returns in addition comparative response time NSID graphs as output.

RTTPING: Takes input file2019preprocessed of PING measurement, nations-prb_id matching file2019, file2020preprocessed of PING measurement, nations-prb_id matching file 2020. Returns all median, 90th percentile and error plots as output. 

ResponseTimeDHCP: Takes input file2019DHCPpreprocessed, nations-prb_id matching file2019, file2020DHCPpreprocessed, nations-prb_id matching file 2020. Returns all median, 90th percentile and error plots as output.

Anomaly: Takes as input the two files 2019 and 2020 in csv of the measurement with DHCP and returns the graphs per AS of the anomaly detection

ChangePoints:

AfricaEuropa:

ISPPublicComparison:

Singles Script List description:

-DownloadMeasurementResult.js: It takes as input the msm_id field of the measurement, a start time, and a stop time, producing as output a file containing all the results produced by the measurement in the selected time range.

-FormatData.js: The script takes the JSON file obtained from the download and reorganizes it. The data are grouped in blocks, one per request, and the script takes care of splitting them into single rows.

- FormatPing.js: The script takes the JSON file obtained from the download and rearranges it. The data is grouped into blocks, one per request, and the script takes care of splitting them into individual rows taking into account the RTT fields and avoiding mixing with other results. It receives as input the CSV file of the results and the name of the CSV file to be generated as output.

- FormatDHCP.js: The script takes the JSON file obtained from the download and rearranges it. The data is grouped into blocks, one per request. All the resolvers assigned by DHCP, which can be more than one, are measured for each result, and the script takes care of splitting them into individual rows. It receives as input the CSV file of the results and the name of the CSV file to be generated as output.

- ChangeDateFormat.js: It takes as input the JSON file made by the FormatData.js script and the name of the destination file. The script takes care of changing the format of the timestamp field for each result from UNIX format to "yyyy-mm-dd HH:MM:ss".

- testCreazioneFileConSoloProbe80percent.py: It takes as input the file generated by the previous scripts in CSV format and the name of the output file and returns a CSV containing only the results of the probes that have been active for at least 80% of the time in the 2019/2020 timeframe.

- Find_prb_ASN_match.py: The script using the .bz2 file downloaded from the RIPE Atlas repository to generate a csv containing for each probe, its associated ASN. 

- asn_adder.py: The script is responsible for merging the two files passed as arguments, which are the results file as the first input and the ASN probe matches file. It returns the CSV file with the name passed as the third argument.

- extract_ASN_population.py: The script downloads information on the number of people served per ASN from https://stats.labs.apnic.net/aspop/. It returns a CSV.

- join2csv.py: The scipt join 2 csv passed as input and save them in a file named as the third input

- SaveNsID: The script takes the complete CSV file as input, decodes the "abuf" field and returns a CSV file (the name of the second input) containing the NSID value instead of the decoded field.

- PlotCountry.m

- PlotCountry90Percent.m

- PlotEurope.m

- PlotEurope90Percent.m

- PlotError.m

- PlotError_regions.m

- Plot_NSID.m
